.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SUXML 1
.Os SUXML man page
.Th SUXML 15/05/2016
.Sh NAME
.Nm suxml
.Nd simple and opinionated XML editor

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm suxml
.Op Fl -light
.Op Fl L
.Op Fl P
.Op Fl O Ar output_file
.Ar file

.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a simple yet usable, opinionated XML editor.
Its arguments are as follows.

.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -light
Invert the color scheme into black on white text.
.It Fl L
Do not include newline at the end of the file (for compatibility).
.It Fl P
Do not open the editor, only pass through the file.  suxml will reformat the
file, like a linter would.
.It Fl O Ar output_file
A different file to output to
.It Ar file
The XML file to edit.

.Sh AVAILABILITY
.Nm
should work on any system with a C++ compiler and the ncurses library.  It was
only tested on Linux, however.

.Sh EXAMPLES
It is simple to edit a XML file:
.Pp
.D1 $ suxml file.xml
.Pp

Maybe you prefer a light color scheme:
.Pp
.D1 $ suxml --light another_file.xml
.Pp

It's also possible to output to a different file, without a newline at the
end of the file:
.Pp
.D1 $ suxml -L -O mine/output.xml foreign/file.xml
.Pp

suxml can also be easily used as a linter, reformatting to its preferred format,
without opening the editor:
.Pp
.D1 $ suxml -P -O clean.xml dirty.xml
.Pp

.Sh BUGS
.Nm
currently has problems with XML structures nested too deep (i.e., wider than the terminal window).

.Sh AUTHOR
.Nm
was written by David "Sanky" Labský <labskdav@fit.cvut.cz>

.Sh COPYRIGHT
.Nm
is distributed under the MIT license.  See LICENSE for details.

.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was written in 2015 as a school assignment.  In 2016 it was revived to serve
as an example for the subject of technical documentation.
